Draft Cardano Decentralized Message Queue CIP (#1)
cardano-scaling/CIPs: CIP-0XXX/README.md

---
CIP: ?
Title: Cardano Decentralized Message Queue
Category: ?
Status: Proposed
Authors:
    - Jean-Philippe Raynaud <jp.raynaud@gmail.com>
    - Arnaud Bailly <arnaud.bailly@iohk.io>
    - Marcin Szamotulski <marcin.szamotulski@iohk.io>
    - Armando Santos <armando.santos@iohk.io>
    - Neil Davies <neil.davies@iohk.io>
    - Sebastian Nagel <sebastian.nagel@ncoding.at>
    - ?
Implementors: 
    - Cardano Scaling team <https://github.com/cardano-scaling>
Discussions:
    - https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/?
Created: 2024-08-02
License: Apache-2.0
---

# Cardano Decentralized Message Queue

> ## Questions

Author: I removed it :+1:

## Abstract

> We propose to create a decentralized message diffusion protocol leveraging the Cardano network layer. This protocol allows to follow a topic based publish-subscribe pattern to diffuse messages from publisher nodes to subscriber nodes in a decentralized way.  

Reviewer: > This protocol allows to follow a topic based publish-subscribe pattern to diffuse messages from publisher nodes to subscriber nodes in a decentralized way.

mentioning pub-sub here is not  very accurate I'd say it like this:

```suggestion
This protocol allows the diffusion of messages from signer nodes to aggregator nodes in a decentralized way.
```

Author: I removed the pub-sub mention

> The messages can be sent and received by nodes running in a non intrusive way side by side to the Cardano node in order to enable inter-nodes communications.

Reviewer: > non intrusive way side by side to the Cardano node

This is a weird way to hint at the architecture section. I would just say it instead of being mysterious about it.

```suggestion
The messages will be sent and received by mithril nodes. Mithril nodes are implemented using the cardano node network stack and will have to run side by side with full cardano nodes.
```

Author: We want to stay generic in the formulation as Mithril is only one of the use cases

### Protocol authentication

#### Message authentication mechanism
The message body is signed with the KES key of the SPO. This signature and the operational certificate of the SPO are appended to the message which is diffused.

Before being diffused to other peers, an incoming message must be verified by the receiving node. This is done with the following steps:
- Verify that the operational certificate is valid by checking that the KES verification key is signed by cold secret key.
- Verify the KES signature of the message body with the KES verification key from the operational certificate.
- Compute the SPO pool id by hashing the cold verification key from the operational certificate.
- Make sure that this pool id is part of the stake distribution (the network layer will need to have access to this information).

If any of these step fails, the message is considered as invalid, which is a protocol violation.

> [!WARNING]  
> We also probably need to make sure that the KES key used to sign is from the latest rotation:
> - either the last seen opcert number in the block headers of the chain.
> - or the last seen opcert number from a previous message diffused.
> 

> > If the opcert number received is strictly lower than the previous one which has been seen, it should be considered as a protocol violation.

Reviewer: I would also add a note saying that there might be needed an extra step of handshake to negotiate a mithril magic to forward the connection to the mithril node.

Author: Maybe it's a bit too much of an implementation detail?

Reviewer 2: A standalone Mithril node will use its own `handshake`; it can introduce its own protocol parameters, but quite likely it will start with `NodeToNodeVersionData`:

```hs
data NodeToNodeVersionData = NodeToNodeVersionData
  { networkMagic  :: !NetworkMagic
  , diffusionMode :: !DiffusionMode
  , peerSharing   :: !PeerSharing
  , query         :: !Bool
  }
  deriving (Show, Typeable, Eq)
```

* `networkMagic` - I think that's useful for debugging, and making sure the `Mithril` node runs on the right network; but it should be different than the existing `networkMagic`s
* `diffusionMode` - this is useful if there are initiator-only nodes, e.g. a Mithril node running next to an edge node (a wallet)
* `peerSharing` - this will be useful, since we want peer sharing in the Mithril network
* `query` - that's useful for tools like `cardano-cli ping`, so I'd keep it.

#### Equivocation

In this attack, a malicious SPO would send different messages to different peers. This attack needs to be handled by the receiver of the message as the network layer does not verify the content of the message body by design.

In the specific case of Mithril, the individual signature is unique so there will be two cases:
- the message embeds a valid signature and it will be accepted by the receiving Mithril aggregator.
- the message embeds an invalid signature and it will be rejected by the receiving Mithril aggregator.

#### DoS attack

In this attack, a malicous SPO would try to flood the network by sending many messages at once. In that case, the network layer could detect that the throughput of messages originating from a SPO is above a threshold and consider it as a protocol violation, thus disconnecting the malicous peer.

## Local Message Submission mini-protocol

### Description

> The local message submission mini-protocol is used by local clients to submit message to a local node. This mini-protocol is **not** used to diffuse messages from a core node to another. 

Reviewer: > from a core node to another

I don't like this wording as it hints that the protocol will run on cardano-node.

Author: From our discussions, the cardano node would be called directly by the n2c mini-protocols

Reviewer: yes but it won't be cardano-node running the protocols right? You'll just be querying its chain/state

### State machine

| Agency ||
|--------|------| 
| Client has Agency | StIdle | 
| Server has Agency | StBusy |

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2   

  classDef White fill:white,stroke:white
  classDef Black fill:white,stroke:black
  classDef Blue fill:white,stroke:blue
  classDef Green fill:white,stroke:green

  start:::White --> StIdle:::Blue;
  StIdle:::Blue --> StBusy:::Green : MsgSubmitMessage
  StBusy:::Green --> StIdle:::Blue : MsgAcceptMessage
  StBusy:::Green --> StIdle:::Blue : MsgRejectMessage
  StIdle:::Blue --> StDone:::Black : MsgDone
   
```

#### Protocol messages

* **MsgSubmitMessage(message)**: The client submits a message.
* **MsgAcceptMessage**: The server accepts the message.
* **MsgRejectMessage(reason)**: The server rejects the message and replies with a *reason*.
* **MsgDone**: The client terminates the mini-protocol.

#### Transition table

| From state | Message | Parameters | To State|
|--------|------|----|----| 
| StIdle | MsgSubmitMessage | message | StBusy |
| StBusy | MsgAcceptMessage |  | StIdle |
| StBusy | MsgRejectMessage | reason | StIdle |
| StIdle | MsgDone |  | StDone |

## Local Message Notification mini-protocol

### Description

> The local message notification mini-protocol is used by local clients to be notified about new message received by the core node. 

Reviewer: same here

Author: Same answer for this n2c mini-protocol

be built from components that are used in production.

`Cardano` and `Mithril`, as separate executables, can still be packaged
together, lowering the barrier of participation. When run separately, the SPO
is also in better control of the resources dedicated to each process - this is
important for the health of both systems.

Another benefit of such a design is that `Mithril` can be developed on its own
pace, not affected by significant changes in other parts of the system like
ledger - the Cardano Core team restrains itself to not publishing new `cardano-node`
versions with significant changes across many of its subsystems - just for the
sake of clarity of where to look if a bug is found.

In this design, a `Mithril` node runs alongside a `cardano-node`, which is connected to
it via a UNIX socket (`node-to-client`) protocol.  This means an SPO will run
a `Mithril` node per `cardano-node`.  The `Mithril` node connected to BP can
also have access to necessary keys for signing purposes. `Mithril` might also
use the KES agent, as `cardano-node` will in the near future, to securely access
the KES key.

# Path to Active

## Acceptance Criteria

> 1. A Cardano node implementing the previously described mini-protocols is released for production.

Reviewer: I don't think the wording is correct here. It should not be "a cardano node" but rather "a mithril node", right?

1. A message producer node (e.g. a Mithril signer) publishing messages to the local Cardano node through mini-protocols is released.

> 1. A message subscriber node (e.g. a Mithril aggregator) receiving messages from the local Cardano node is released.

Reviewer: Right so I think it should be made even more clearer (in the earlier sections or even in the architecture section) that the final solution implies 3 pieces of software:

- the mithril node
- the signer
- the aggregator

Author: It feels like the Mithril node will be considered part of the Cardano node as they will be bundled together.

## Implementation Plan

> [!WARNING]  
> A hard-fork of the Cardano chain may be required.

* Write a "formal" specification of the protocols along with vectors/conformance checker for protocol's structure and state machine logic.
* Validate protocol behaviour with all relevant parties (Network and Node teams).
* Validate performance profile and impact on Cardano network.
* Implement the Cardano n2n and n2c mini-protocols in the Cardano node.

> * Implement the Cardano n2c mini-protocols in Mithril signer and aggregator nodes.

Reviewer: I would add, write a contained document describing the designed architecture, essentially extending this CIP with more technical or details about the solution

Author: I added a bullet point for a written architecture document

---
CIP: ?
Title: Cardano Decentralized Message Queue
Category: ?
Status: Proposed
Authors:
    - Marcin Szamotulski <marcin.szamotulski@iohk.io>
    - Armando Santos <armando.santos@iohk.io>
    - Neil Davies <neil.davies@iohk.io>
    - Jean-Philippe Raynaud <jp.raynaud@gmail.com>

>     - ?

Reviewer 3: I'd say you should be first author @jpraynaud

We may also include @abailly as he wrote the original draft (if he wants)?

```suggestion
    - Sebastian Nagel <sebastian.nagel@ncoding.at>
```

Author: Done, I added @abailly and @ch1bo in the authors list :+1:

> Implementors: 
>     - ?

Reviewer 3: Could name the abstract "Cardano scaling" group if we want:

https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/870/files#diff-4877302f625cfbd6c50c9948ca0dda37abcaf3352ffbd68e59b58256095b6395R11

Otherwise, just leave it empty with 

```suggestion
Implementors: []
```

Author: I mentioned the Cardano Scaling team :+1:

| StMessages | MsgReplyMessages | [messages] | StIdle |
| StMessageIdsBlocking | MsgDone |  | StDone |

#### CDDL encoding specification

```cddl
 1
 2  messageSubmissionMessage
 3    = msgInit
 4    / msgRequestMessageIds
 5    / msgReplyMessageIds
 6    / msgRequestMessages
 7    / msgReplyMessages
 8    / msgDone
 9 
10  msgInit = [0]
11  msgRequestMessageIds = [1, isBlocking, messageCount, messageCount]
12  msgReplyMessageIds = [2, [ *messageIdAndSize ] ]
13  msgRequestMessages = [3, messageIdList ]
14  msgReplyMessages = [4, ]
15  msgDone = [5, ]
16
17  isBlocking = false / true
18  messageCount = word16
19  messageId = bstr
20  messageBody = bstr
21  messageIdAndSize = [ messageId, messageSizeInBytes ]
22  messageIdList = [ * messageId ]
23  messageList = [ * message ]
24  messageSizeInBytes = word32
25  kesSignature = bstr
26  operationalCertificate = bstr
27  blockNumber = word32
28  
29  message = [
30    messageId,
31    messageBody,
32    blockNumber,
33    kesSignature,
34    operationalCertificate
35  ]
30
```

### Client and server implementation

This mini-protocol is designed with two goals in mind:
* diffuse messages with high efficiency

> * protect from asymmetric resource atatckes from the message consumer against the message provider

Author: It's more related to the fact that when a peer connects to another peer it serves requests to that peer instead of initiating requests to it (which is why the server has agency in the state diagram).

- the message consumer asks for message ids,
- and uses these ids to request a batch of messages (which it has not received yet)

The client is responsible for initiating the mini-protocol with a peer node, but the server (i.e. the other node) is the one who asks for information.

The client maintains a limited size FIFO queue of outstanding messages for each of the servers it is connected to, so does the server with a mirror FIFO queue of message ids:
- the server asks for the next message ids and acknowledges for the previous message ids received (and removed from its queue).
- the client removes the acknowledged ids from the FIFO queue it maintains for the server.
- the server can download the content of the messages by giving an unordered list of ids to the client.

The protocol supports blocking and non-blocking requests:
- the client must reply immediately to a non-blocking request.
- the server must wait until the client has at least one message available.
- if the current queue of the server is empty, it must use a blocking request and a non-blocking request otherwise.

### Network load

#### Mithril extra network usage

> [!NOTE]

> > The computation must apply a multiplicative factor based on the number of peers connected and/or the overall redundancy of messages transmitted with the diffusion mechanism. The current value is **2**.

Reviewer 3: Which computation refers this to?

Author: I explained to which computations the factor is applied.

> [!WARNING]
> Some compression can be applied to the Mithril signatures which allows them to always be on the lower bound size, but it is not implemented yet.

> > [!NOTE]  
> > For a total of **3,100** Cardano SPOs on the `mainnet`, on an average **50%** of them will be eligible to send signatures (i.e. will win at least one lottery in the Mithril protocol). This means that if the full Cardano stake distribution is involved in the Mithril protocol, only **1550** signers will send signatures at each round. 
> 

Reviewer 3: Could: move it into the text (see other comment)

```suggestion
```

Author: Done

The following tables gather figures about expected network load in the case of **Mithril** using the mini-protocol to diffuse the individual signatures: 

| Message part | Lower bound | Upper bound |
|--------|------|------|
| messageId | 32 B | 32 B | 
| messageBody | 360 B | 2,000 B |
| blockNumber | 4 B | 4 B |
| kesSignature | 448 B | 448 B |
| operationalCertificate | 304 B | 304 Bytes |

| Message | Lower bound | Upper bound |
|--------|------|------|
| total | 1,148 B | 2,788 B | 

> For a total of **3,100** Cardano SPOs, there will be **1,550** messages sent per round of signature: 

Reviewer 3: This is basically the same as in the NOTE above. I suggest we just move it here into the text.

```suggestion
For a total of **3,100** Cardano SPOs on the `mainnet`, on an average **50%** of them will be eligible to send signatures (i.e. will win at least one lottery in the Mithril protocol). This means that if the full Cardano stake distribution is involved in the Mithril protocol, only **1550** signers will send signatures at each round: 
```

Author: Done

| 2 min       | 74 GB/month  | 178 GB/month |
| 5 min       | 30 GB/month  | 72 GB/month  |
| 10 min      | 15 GB/month  | 36 GB/month  |

### Infrastructure extra operating costs

#### Networking traffic cost

> [!NOTE]  
> - These data apply to cloud providers which bill the traffic on the volume, not the bandwidth.
> - Some cloud providers offer a free tier for the first **100GB** of traffic which is not taken into consideration here for simplicity.

| Cloud Provider | Inbound Traffic | Outbound Traffic |
|--------|------|------|
| AWS | 0 $/GB | 0.09 $/GB |
| GCP | 0 $/GB | 0.11 $/GB |
| Azure | 0 $/GB | 0.09 $/GB |
| Average | 0 $/GB | 0.1 $/GB |

#### Mithril message diffusion extra networking cost

For a total of `3,000` SPOs sending messages, the extra networking cost incurred for a Cardano full node is:

| Send period | Lower bound | Upper bound |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| 1 min       | 15 $/month  | 36 $/month  |
| 2 min       | 8 $/month   | 18 $/month  |
| 5 min       | 3 $/month   | 8 $/month   |
| 10 min      | 2 $/month   | 4 $/month   |

### Protocol authentication

#### Message authentication mechanism

> The message body is signed with the KES key of the SPO. This signature and the operational certificate of the SPO are appended to the message which is diffused.

Reviewer 3: Can we move this further up and/or mention this in the introduction of the protocol? The fact that the whole protocol only works for signed messages that can be associated to stake on Cardano is very important.

Author: I have moved the section higher in the document.

Before being diffused to other peers, an incoming message must be verified by the receiving node. This is done with the following steps:
- Verify that the operational certificate is valid by checking that the KES verification key is signed by cold secret key.
- Verify the KES signature of the message body with the KES verification key from the operational certificate.
- Compute the SPO pool id by hashing the cold verification key from the operational certificate.
- Make sure that this pool id is part of the stake distribution (the network layer will need to have access to this information).

If any of these step fails, the message is considered as invalid, which is a protocol violation.

> [!WARNING]  
> We also probably need to make sure that the KES key used to sign is from the latest rotation:
> - either the last seen opcert number in the block headers of the chain.

> > - or the last seen opcert number from a previous message diffused.

Reviewer 3: Would the mithril signer registration (which needs to be decentralized) be a good source of truth here?

Author: Maybe in the long run, as the Mithril cryptography is not implemented in the node yet. Also this mechanism is supposed to work with future procotols which will probably only have access to KES keys and OpCert.

> 

> > If the opcert number received is strictly lower than the previous one which has been seen, it > should be considered as a protocol violation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> If the opcert number received is strictly lower than the previous one which has been seen, it should be considered as a protocol violation.
```

Author: Done

#### Cost of authentication

> [!NOTE]
> Computations are based on a **2 ms** verification delay per message on a CPU core.

For a total of **3,100** Cardano SPOs, there will be **1,550** messages sent per round of signature: 

- the number of messages received by a node which need to be verified is:

| Send period | Messages sent |
| ----------- | ------------- |
| 1 min       | 64 M/month    |
| 2 min       | 32 M/month    |
| 5 min       | 13 M/month    |
| 10 min      | 7 M/month     |

- the extra CPU time for verification for a Cardano full node is:

| Send period | CPU core usage |
| ----------- | -------------- |
| 1 min       | 5%             |
| 2 min       | 2.5%           |
| 5 min       | 1.0%           |

> | 10 min      | 0.5%           |

Reviewer 3: Where are these numbers coming from? Also the 2ms cpu time per messages seems quite arbitrary?

Breaking this down to the individual task of authentication is a bit weird IMO. It's good that we mention that verifying and forwarding messages is not free, but this does not seem to be the full picture still.

Author: The numbers are the computed based on the number of messages received per month and the time needed to verify the KES signature for each message. I updated the text to make it more clear how the computations are made. 

The `2ms` CPU is the average KES signature verification time IIRC (it can be adjusted if this is not the correct value).

### Possible attacks

#### Sybil attack

In this attack, a malicious sender would attempt to create multiple identities impersonating SPOs. This attack is completely mitigated by the [Message authentication mechanism](#Message-authentication-mechanism) as only active SPO on the Cardano chain can be authenticated and send messages. This would be considered as a protocol violation and the malicous peer would be disconnected.

#### Equivocation

In this attack, a malicious SPO would send different messages to different peers. This attack needs to be handled by the receiver of the message as the network layer does not verify the content of the message body by design.

In the specific case of Mithril, the individual signature is unique so there will be two cases:
- the message embeds a valid signature and it will be accepted by the receiving Mithril aggregator.
- the message embeds an invalid signature and it will be rejected by the receiving Mithril aggregator.

#### DoS attack

> In this attack, a malicous SPO would try to flood the network by sending many messages at once. In that case, the network layer could detect that the throughput of messages originating from a SPO is above a threshold and consider it as a protocol violation, thus disconnecting the malicous peer.

Reviewer 3: > messages originating from a SPO is above a threshold

This implies that the protocol should be configured with thresholds. Would be great if we can mention this somewhere else

Reviewer: In a pull-based protocol this would already be a protocol violation. If a peer ask for N signatures and receives N+1 then that's enough to be a protocol violation. Also the way miniprotocols are implemented they allow to set a maximum message size that would also be a threshold. We can make both mentions here

Author: I added mentions in the document

| Server has Agency | StBusy |

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2   

  classDef White fill:white,stroke:white
  classDef Black fill:white,stroke:black
  classDef Blue fill:white,stroke:blue
  classDef Green fill:white,stroke:green

  start:::White --> StIdle:::Blue;
  StIdle:::Blue --> StBusy:::Green : MsgNextMessage
  StBusy:::Green --> StIdle:::Blue : MsgHasMessage
  StBusy:::Green --> StIdle:::Blue : MsgTimeoutMessage
  StIdle:::Blue --> StDone:::Black : MsgDone
   
```

#### Protocol messages

* **MsgNextMessage**: The client asks for the next message.
* **MsgHasMessage(message)**: The server has received a message.
* **MsgTimeoutMessage**: The server has not received a message and times out.
* **MsgDone**: The client terminates the mini-protocol.

#### Transition table

| From state | Message | Parameters | To State|
|--------|------|----|----| 
| StIdle | MsgNextMessage |  | StBusy |
| StBusy | MsgHasMessage | message | StIdle |
| StBusy | MsgTimeoutMessage | reason | StIdle |
| StIdle | MsgDone |  | StDone |

# Rationale

## Why are we proposing this CIP?

### For Mithril

* Mithril requires strong network foundations to support interactions between its various nodes:

>   * Mithril needs to exist in a decentralized context where multiple aggregators can operate seamlessly and independantly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * Mithril needs to exist in a decentralized context where multiple aggregators can operate seamlessly and independently.
```

>   * Mithril needs participation of all or nearly all of the Cardano network SPOs to provide maximal security to the multi-signatures embedded in the certificates.

Reviewer 3: > all or nearly all

Just say "the majority"?

Author: It's a very large majority of at least 95%

  * Creating a separate network would entail significant costs and efforts (there are more than 3,000 SPOs which would need to be connected with resilient and secure network, and much more passive nodes).

>   * The Cardano network is very efficient for diffusion (e.g. broadcasting) which is precisely what is needed for Mithril.

Reviewer 3: Related to this or one bullet above:

Cardano SPOs need to be vigilant about what other applications run on their block producers and relay nodes. While a separate p2p network could be created, incoming connections must be treated carefully and all the same DoS considerations as with Cardano would need to apply. By standardizing the message diffusion of Mithril in the same way as the Cardano protocol stack, the additional risk of operating Mithril is greatly reduced.

Author: I added a new bullet point for this.

  * Mithril signer node needs to run on the same machine as the Cardano block producing node (to access the KES keys). It makes sense to use the same network layer, which will also facilitate a high level of participation.

### For Leios

> [!NOTE]
> This section needs to be completed.

### For Peras

> [!NOTE]
> This section needs to be completed.

### For Cardano

* Why would it be great for Cardano to support a decentralized message queue with its network?

  * This is a required feature to make the Cardano ecosystem scalable.
  * The design is versatile enough to support present and future use cases.

# Information Diffusion Architecture

In this section, we propose an architecture for `Cardano` and `Mithril`. Note,
in this section, `Mithril` is used as a placeholder for a possible `Mithril`
application: we've seen many ideas about how `Mithril` can be used in `Cardano`

> and all of them can follow this design.

Reviewer 3: This is a weird section and does not fit as a top-level section the CIP template.

I think it's great that we can give more details how mithril and cardano processes would interact, but ultimately the CIP is about the network protocol.

Maybe it would fit better as an Appendix titled "Cardano/Mithril node architecture" or so?

Reviewer: I disagree I think this should be clear from the beginning and it is not. In the abstract, motivation and protocol implementation sections, there's only mention of cardano-node and its network and it leads the reader to think this is going to be an addition to them. Sure mithril is about the protocol, but as we already have discussed there's no strong reason why this protocol should be added to the protocol stack of cardano-node. The viable option that we settled on was what this "architechure" section describes. This is the optimal route, even for Peras and Leios.

pace, not affected by significant changes in other parts of the system like
ledger - the Cardano Core team restrains itself to not publishing new `cardano-node`
versions with significant changes across many of its subsystems - just for the
sake of clarity of where to look if a bug is found.

In this design, a `Mithril` node runs alongside a `cardano-node`, which is connected to
it via a UNIX socket (`node-to-client`) protocol.  This means an SPO will run
a `Mithril` node per `cardano-node`.  The `Mithril` node connected to BP can
also have access to necessary keys for signing purposes. `Mithril` might also
use the KES agent, as `cardano-node` will in the near future, to securely access
the KES key.

# Path to Active

## Acceptance Criteria

1. A Cardano node implementing the previously described mini-protocols is released for production.
1. A message producer node (e.g. a Mithril signer) publishing messages to the local Cardano node through mini-protocols is released.
1. A message subscriber node (e.g. a Mithril aggregator) receiving messages from the local Cardano node is released.

## Implementation Plan

> [!WARNING]  

> > A hard-fork of the Cardano chain may be required.

Reviewer 3: How? The CIP does not suggest this. Please elaborate

Author: Done

* Implement the Cardano n2c mini-protocols in Mithril signer and aggregator nodes.

# Further Reading

### Cardano network

* **The Shelley Networking Protocol**: https://ouroboros-network.cardano.intersectmbo.org/pdfs/network-spec/network-spec.pdf
* **Introduction to the design of the Data Diffusion and
Networking for Cardano Shelley**: https://ouroboros-network.cardano.intersectmbo.org/pdfs/network-design/network-design.pdf

### Mithril
* **Mithril: Stake-based Threshold Multisignatures**: https://iohk.io/en/research/library/papers/mithril-stake-based-threshold-multisignatures/
* **Mithril Network Architecture**: https://mithril.network/doc/mithril/mithril-network/architecture
* **Mithril Protocol in depth**: https://mithril.network/doc/mithril/mithril-protocol/protocol
* **Mithril Certificate Chain in depth**: https://mithril.network/doc/mithril/mithril-protocol/certificates
* **Fast Bootstrap a Cardano node**: https://mithril.network/doc/manual/getting-started/bootstrap-cardano-node
* **Run a Mithril Signer node (SPO)**: https://mithril.network/doc/manual/getting-started/run-signer-node/
* **Mithril Threat Model**: https://mithril.network/doc/mithril/threat-model

> ### Leios
> 
> > [!NOTE]
> > This section needs to be completed.
> 
> ### Peras
> 
> > [!NOTE]
> > This section needs to be completed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done
